<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kmines;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kmines; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Nicolas</firstname>
<surname>Hadacek</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Michael</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>mmcbride@ematic.org</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Anton</firstname>
<surname>Brondz</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>dinolinux@gmail.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Nicolas</firstname>
<surname>Hadacek</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation><address>&Lauri.Watts.mail;</address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>&Nicolas.Hadacek;, Michael McBride</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2005-12-28</date>
<releaseinfo>2.1.10</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>&kmines; is the &kde; version of the classic minesweeper
game.</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>minesweeper</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>
<para>
Game type: Strategy, Board
Number of players: One
</para>

<para>&kmines; is the classic Minesweeper game. The idea is to uncover all the
squares without blowing up any mines. When a mine is blown up, the game is over.
Numbers indicate how many mines there are nearby.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="how-to-play">
<title>How to Play</title>
<para>
To play &kmines;, you need to use the mouse and its three buttons to 
uncover or to flag the squares (with two-buttoned mice, clicking the
<mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> button is generally achieved by
simultaneously pressing the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> and the
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> buttons).
</para>

<para>Clicking the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> button on your mouse will
uncover a square. If there is a mine there, it will detonate, and the game will be over.
If there is not a mine under the square, the square is cleared and if there aren't other
mines nearby, the square will disappear including any nearby squares without mines. 
If there are mines nearby, a number will appear showing how many neighboring squares contain mines.
For each square (excluding edge and corner squares), there are eight
neighboring squares.
</para>

<note>
<para>
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton> clicking a flagged square is
safe and does nothing.
</para>
</note>

<para>
The <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> button will mark
a square as containing a mine (by placing a red flag on it). Clicking the button twice
will set it as being uncertain (by placing a question mark on it). The uncertain tag can
be useful when you are puzzled about the positions of
mines.
The <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> button will
clear the surrounding squares if the right number of squares is
already flagged. It is very useful since it is much quicker than
uncovering all individual squares.
Make sure yout flags are correctly placed, if not, you might
detonate a mine
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="rulestips">
<title>Game Rules, Strategies and Tips</title>
<sect1 id="rules">
<title>Rules</title>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>All the mines have to be cleared before a player can win a game.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The player cannot know the exact location of the mines before the game is over.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>If a mine is detonated, the game is over.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Numbers will indicate nearby mines.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="strattips">
<title>Strategies and tips</title>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Use the numbers to find out where nearby mines are.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Place flags where you suspect there are mines. Note that even though the indicated 
number of mines goes down when you place a flag, there might not be a mine under the flag.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Think before you click, a wrong click could detonate a mine.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>When you suspect that a square contains a mine, work around the square to uncover any numbers which might help.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Try to clear the board as quickly as possible, the less time you spend, the higher your score will be.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="command">
<title>Commands/Keyboard Shortcuts</title>

<para>The following sections briefly describe each menubar option.</para>

<sect1 id="game-menu">
<title><guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> menu consists of 4 options.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts a new game.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>P</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Pauses or resumes the game.  This will hide the board (no cheating), and
give you a button to press when you want to continue this
game.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Highscores</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This shows you the high score (the shortest time) for each
difficulty level.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quits</action> &kmines;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="move-menu"><title><guimenu>Move</guimenu> Menu</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>H</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Hint</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If you use this item, you will get a hint about where
you should click next. If you do that your score will not be added to the high-scores.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Solve</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item tries to solve the current game.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Solving Rate...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item shows a dialog that calculates the solving rate for the current game type.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>View Log</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item shows a dialog with the log of the last game.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replay Log</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item replays the current log.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Log...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item shows a dialog to save the current log.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Load Log...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item shows a dialog to load a log.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="view-menu"><title><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom In</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Increase the size of the gameplay canvas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom Out</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Decrease the size of the gameplay canvas.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu"><title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Menubar</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If there is a check in front of this option, then the menubar
will be visible.  Selecting this option, hides the menubar.</para>
<note><para>To restore a hidden menubar, click outside the game play area, with
the right mouse button.  This will bring up a small sub-menu.  Simply select
<guimenuitem>Show Menubar</guimenuitem> from this sub-menu, and the menubar
will be visible again.</para></note></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Choose Game Type</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Lets you set the difficulty level from a sub-menu.</para>
<para>There are three default levels of difficulty:
<guimenuitem>Easy</guimenuitem> (64 squares, 10 mines),
<guimenuitem>Normal</guimenuitem> (256 squares, 40 mines), and
<guimenuitem>Expert</guimenuitem> (480 squares, 99 mines).  There is also a
<guimenuitem>Custom...</guimenuitem> level settings.</para>
<para>If you select <guimenuitem>Custom...</guimenuitem>, then the
settings you have configured in the <guimenuitem>Configure
&kmines;</guimenuitem> dialog will be used.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item lets you change the keyboard shortcuts used by &kmines;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Notifications...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This item displays a standard &kde; notifications configuration
dialog, where you can change the notifications (sounds, visible messages,
&etc;) used by &kmines;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Highscores...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>On the <guilabel>Main</guilabel> tab you can change your 
<guilabel>Nickname</guilabel> and add a
cute <guilabel>Comment</guilabel> about yourself, to show in the high
score table. You can also activate the <guilabel>World-wide highscores
enabled</guilabel> checkbox, and share your skill at &kmines; across
the world with an online high score server. If you are connected to the 
Internet, &kmines; will send your score automatically at the end of the 
game to the high score web server (kmines.sf.net).</para>
<para>The <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab displays your <guilabel>Registration Data</guilabel> 
on kmines.sf.net, your <guilabel>Nickname:</guilabel> from the <guilabel>Main</guilabel> 
tab and the <guilabel>Key:</guilabel>. This key was generated when you registered on kmines.sf.net by 
selecting <guilabel>World-wide high scores enabled</guilabel> the first time.
The registration key is used in conjunction with the 
nickname to identify uniquely users, but users cannot have the same nickname.
Click on the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button to delete you from the world high scores
list.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kmines;...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to adjust game options.  For more detailed
information, see the section entitled <link linkend="settings">Game
Options</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="keys"><title>Default Keyboard Shortcuts</title>
<para>The following table shows you the default keyboard shortcuts.</para>


<table>
<title>Keyboard Shortcuts</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead><row><entry>Key Combo</entry><entry>Action</entry></row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry><keycap>Arrows</keycap></entry><entry>Move cursor in playing area.</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>PageDown</keycap></entry><entry>Move to bottom
edge</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>PageUp</keycap></entry><entry>Move to top
edge</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>Home</keycap></entry><entry>Move to left edge</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>End</keycap></entry><entry>Move to right edge</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>Space</keycap></entry><entry>Reveal square.</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>W</keycap></entry><entry>Mark square as mine</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>Return</keycap></entry><entry>Automatically reveal all
surrounding squares not marked by a flag.</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>New Game</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>P</keycap></entry><entry>Pause Game</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>Quit &kmines;</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycap>F1</keycap></entry><entry>&kmines; Handbook</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>What's This Help</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>Show Highscores</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>Show Menubar</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>Zoom In</entry></row>
<row><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></entry><entry>Zoom Out</entry></row>

</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

<para>These shortcuts can be changed by selecting <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure 
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> from the menubar.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="faq">
<title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
<qandaset>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How do I start a new game?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Press the New button, select New from the Game menu or press 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How can I pause the game?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
There is currently no way to pause &kmines;.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Can I change the way the game looks?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes, click on the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu and
select <guimenuitem>Configure</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Is there a way to add more mines and squares?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes, the easiest way is to use the list in the lower right corner.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I'm stuck, can I get a hint?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
No, there is no hint system for &kmines;.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<chapter id="settings">
<title>Game settings</title>
<para>
The game settings can be configured by selecting the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
and selecting <guimenuitem>Configure &kmines;</guimenuitem>. A dialog will appear.
</para>

<para>
On the first tab, you can set the theme. Select a theme from the list to see a preview
of it on the right. You can set it by clicking <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> and <guibutton>OK</guibutton>.
To download more themes, click the <guibutton>Get New Themes</guibutton> button. This will open
a new dialog where you can install more themes.
</para>

<para>
On the second tab, you can set how a custom game will be. You can set the height, width and
number of mines in your custom level.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits"><title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kmines;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 1996-2000 &Nicolas.Hadacek; &Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</para>
<para>Documentation copyright 2000 &Nicolas.Hadacek; &Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</para>
<para>Documentation updated for &kde; 2.0 by &Mike.McBride;
&Mike.McBride.mail;</para>
<para>Some changes for &kde; 3.2 by &Philip.Rodrigues; &Philip.Rodrigues.mail;</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kmines">
<title>How to obtain &kmines;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>
</appendix>


</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->


